Implementation of Microsoft Graph Connector (#1)
ballerina-platform/module-microsoftgraph: README.md

# Module Microsoft Graph

> Connects to Microsoft Graph API which acts as the gateway to data and intelligence in Microsoft 365. Microsoft Graph exposes a unified programming model which can be used to access vast amounts of data available in Office 365, Windows 10, and Enterprise Mobility & Security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module allows users to connect to the Microsoft Graph API, which acts as the gateway to data and intelligence in Microsoft 365. Microsoft Graph exposes a unified programming model, which can be used to access vast amounts of data available in Office 365, Windows 10, and Enterprise Mobility & Security.
```

Author: Done

The current implementation of Microsoft Graph consists of the following sub modules.

**Spreadsheet Operations**

The `wso2/msspreadsheets` module contains operations to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) operations on [Excel workbooks](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/excel?view=graph-rest-1.0) stored in Microsoft OneDrive.

**OneDrive Operations**
Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting service and synchronization service run by Microsoft. It is operated as part of Microsoft Office 365.
The `wso2/msonedrive` module contains operations for accessing the items stored in OneDrive.

## Compatibility
|                     |    Version     |
|:-------------------:|:--------------:|
| Ballerina Language  | 1.2.0   |
| Microsoftgraph REST API | v1.0          |

## Getting started

> 1.  Refer the [Getting Started](https://ballerina.io/learn/getting-started/) guide to download and install Ballerina.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Download and install Ballerina. For instructions, go to [Installing Ballerina](https://ballerina.io/v1-2/learn/installing-ballerina/).
```
We do not have a Getting Started now in the Ballerina website. This should be linked to "Installing Ballerina".

Author: Ok, Updated

> 2.  To use the Microsoft Graph API, you need to provide the following configuration information in the ballerina.conf file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Provide the following configuration information in the `ballerina.conf` file to use the Microsoft Graph API.
```

Author: Done

       - MS_CLIENT_ID
       - MS_CLIENT_SECRET
       - MS_ACCESS_TOKEN
       - MS_REFRESH_TOKEN
       - TRUST_STORE_PATH
       - TRUST_STORE_PASSWORD
       - WORK_BOOK_NAME
       - WORK_SHEET_NAME
       - TABLE_NAME

>     Following steps should be followed to obtain the above mentioned configuration information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Follow the steps below to obtain the configuration information mentioned above.
```

Author: Done

>     Before you run the following steps you may have to create an account in [OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com). Next, sign into [Azure Portal - App Registrations](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade). You may have to use your personal or work or school account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before you run the following steps, create an account in [OneDrive](https://onedrive.live.com). Next, sign into [Azure Portal - App Registrations](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade). You can use your personal or work or school account to register.
```

Author: Done

>     From the App registrations page, click on New registration. Enter a meaningful name in the name field. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the App registrations page, click **New registration** and enter a meaningful name in the name field. 
```

Author: Done

>     In the Supported account types section, select Accounts in any organizational directory and personal Microsoft accounts (e.g. Skype, Xbox, Outlook.com). Click Register to create the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the Supported account types section, select **Accounts** in any organizational directory under personal Microsoft accounts (e.g., Skype, Xbox, Outlook.com). Click **Register** to create the application.
```
These steps are not very clear. Better to add screenshots under each of them.

Author: Done

    Copy the Application (client) ID (\<MS_CLIENT_ID>). This is the unique identifier for your app.

>     In the application's list of pages (under the Manage tab in left hand side menu), select Authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the application's list of pages (under the **Manage** tab in left hand side menu), select **Authentication**.
```
You need to have all UI Elements in bold.

Author: Done

>     Under the Platform configurations click on "Add a platform" button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Under **Platform configurations**, click **Add a platform**.
```

Author: Done

>     Under the "Configure platforms", click on "Web" button located under the Web applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Under **Configure platforms**, click the **Web** button located under **Web applications**.
```

Author: Done

>     Under the redirect URIs text box, put [OAuth2 Native Client](https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Under the **redirect URIs** text box, add the [OAuth2 Native Client](https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient).
```

Author: Done

>     Under the Implicit grant select Access tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Under **Implicit grant**, select **Access tokens**.
```

Author: Done

>     Click on Configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Click **Configure**.
```
Shall we add numbered bullets for these steps?

Author: Did highlighting the UI element. Since this text is already located within numbered bullets (high-level section numbers) it will be complicated if we use numbered bullets here again.

>     Under the Certificates & Secrets, create a new client secret (\<MS_CLIENT_SECRET>). This requires providing a description and a period of expiry. Next, click on Add button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Under **Certificates & Secrets**, create a new client secret (\<MS_CLIENT_SECRET>). This requires providing a description and a period of expiry. Next, click **Add**.
```

Author: Done

>     Next, we need to obtain an access token and a refresh token to invoke the Microsoft Graph API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Next, you need to obtain an access token and a refresh token to invoke the Microsoft Graph API.
```

Author: Done

>     First, in a new browser enter this URL by replacing the \<MS_CLIENT_ID> with the application ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    First, in a new browser, enter the below URL by replacing the \<MS_CLIENT_ID> with the application ID.
```

Author: Done

    ```
    https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=<MS_CLIENT_ID>&redirect_uri=https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient&scope=Files.ReadWrite openid User.Read Mail.Send Mail.ReadWrite offline_access
    ```

>     This may prompt you to enter the username and password for signing into  Azure Portal App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This will prompt you to enter the username and password for signing into the Azure Portal App.
```
May sounds you are unsure about the operation. Therefore, better to use "will" or directly say "This prompts..".

Author: Ok, updated accordingly

>     Once the username password pair successfully entered this will give a URL like follows on the browser address bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Once the username and password pair is successfully entered, this will give a URL as follows on the browser address bar.
```

Author: Done

>     https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient?code=M95780001-0fb3-d138-6aa2-0be59d402f32

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient?code=M95780001-0fb3-d138-6aa2-0be59d402f32`
```

Author: Done

>     Copy the code parameter (M95780001-0fb3-d138-6aa2-0be59d402f32 in the above example) and in a new terminal enter the following CURL command with replacing the \<MS_CODE> with the code received from the above step. The \<MS_CLIENT_ID> and \<MS_CLIENT_SECRET> parameters are the same as above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Copy the code parameter (M95780001-0fb3-d138-6aa2-0be59d402f32 in the above example) and in a new terminal, enter the following CURL command by replacing the \<MS_CODE> with the code received from the above step. The \<MS_CLIENT_ID> and \<MS_CLIENT_SECRET> parameters are the same as above.
```

Author: Done

    ```
    curl -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded" --header "Host:login.microsoftonline.com" -d "client_id=<MS_CLIENT_ID>&client_secret=<MS_CLIENT_SECRET>&grant_type=authorization_code&redirect_uri=https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/nativeclient&code=<MS_CODE>&scope=Files.ReadWrite openid User.Read Mail.Send Mail.ReadWrite offline_access" https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/oauth2/v2.0/token
    ```

>     The above CURL command should result in a response as follows,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The above CURL command should result in a response as follows.
```

Author: Done

    ```
    {
    "token_type": "Bearer",
    "scope": "Files.ReadWrite openid User.Read Mail.Send Mail.ReadWrite",
    "expires_in": 3600,
    "ext_expires_in": 3600,
    "access_token": "<MS_ACCESS_TOKEN>",
    "refresh_token": "<MS_REFRESH_TOKEN>",
    "id_token": "<ID_TOKEN>"
    }
    ```

>     Set the path to your Ballerina distribution's trust store in the <TURST_STORE_PATH>. This is by default located in the following path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Set the path to your Ballerina distribution's trust store as the <TURST_STORE_PATH>. This is by default located in the following path.
```

Author: Done

>     $BALLERINA_HOME/distributions/jballerina-<BALLERINA_VERSION>/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `$BALLERINA_HOME/distributions/jballerina-<BALLERINA_VERSION>/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12`
```
Or add this as a <code> snippet.

Author: Done

>     The default TRUST_STORE_PASSWORD is set to "ballerina".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The default `TRUST_STORE_PASSWORD` is set to "ballerina".
```

Author: Done

>     WORK_BOOK_NAME, WORK_SHEET_NAME, and TABLE_NAME corresponds to workbook file name (without the .xlsx extension), worksheet name, and the table name respectively. Makesure you create a workbook with the same WORK_BOOK_NAME on Microsoft OneDrive before using the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `WORK_BOOK_NAME`, `WORK_SHEET_NAME`, and `TABLE_NAME` correspond to the workbook file name (without the .xlsx extension), worksheet name, and table name respectively. Make sure you create a workbook with the same `WORK_BOOK_NAME` as on Microsoft OneDrive before using the connector.
```

Author: Done

3. Create a new Ballerina project by executing the following command.

	```shell
	<PROJECT_ROOT_DIRECTORY>$ ballerina init
	```

> 4. Import the Microsoft Graph connector to your Ballerina program as follows. The following sample program creates a new worksheet on an existing workbook on Microsoft OneDrive. Prior running this application please create a workbook on your Microsoft OneDrive account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Import the Microsoft Graph connector to your Ballerina program as follows. 

The following sample program creates a new worksheet on an existing workbook on Microsoft OneDrive. Prior to running this application, create a workbook on your Microsoft OneDrive account
```
Do not use "please" in technical documentation.

Author: Ok, Done

> having the name "MyShop.xlsx". There needs to be at least one worksheet (i.e., a tab) on the workbook for this sample program to work. Note that the sample application first tries to delete an existing worksheet named "Sales" from the workbook. If its not available it may throw an error and continue executing the rest of the program. This error may get thrown during the very first round of running the sample application. Makesure, you keep the ballerina.conf file with the above mentioned configuration information before running the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the name "MyShop.xlsx". There needs to be at least one worksheet (i.e., a tab) on the workbook for this sample program to work. 
>**Note:** The sample application first tries to delete an existing worksheet named "Sales" from the workbook. If its not available, it may throw an error and continue executing the rest of the program. This error will get thrown during the very first round of running the sample application. Make sure that you keep the `ballerina.conf` file with the above-mentioned configuration information before running the
```

Author: We need not to format the line 102 as a note. It is not supposed to be a note. Hence I removed the ">**Note:** " from the line 102 and updated the rest of the text.

sample application.

## Sample Application

	```ballerina
	import ballerina/config;
    import ballerina/log;
    import ballerina/time;
    import wso2/msspreadsheets;
    import wso2/msonedrive;

>     // Create Microsoft Graph Client configuration by reading from config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Create the Microsoft Graph Client configuration by reading the config file.
```

Author: Done

        msRefreshURL: config:getAsString("MS_REFRESH_URL"),
        trustStorePath: config:getAsString("TRUST_STORE_PATH"),
        trustStorePassword: config:getAsString("TRUST_STORE_PASSWORD"),
        bearerToken: config:getAsString("MS_ACCESS_TOKEN"),
        clientConfig: {
            accessToken: config:getAsString("MS_ACCESS_TOKEN"),
            refreshConfig: {
                clientId: config:getAsString("MS_CLIENT_ID"),
                clientSecret: config:getAsString("MS_CLIENT_SECRET"),
                refreshToken: config:getAsString("MS_REFRESH_TOKEN"),
                refreshUrl: config:getAsString("MS_REFRESH_URL")
            }
        }
    };

    msspreadsheets:MSSpreadsheetClient msSpreadsheetClient = new(msGraphConfig);
    
    string WORK_BOOK_NAME = "MyShop";
    string WORK_SHEET_NAME = "Sales";
    string TABLE_NAME = "tbl";

    public function main() {
        msspreadsheets:Workbook|error workbook = msSpreadsheetClient->openWorkbook("/", WORK_BOOK_NAME);

        if (workbook is msspreadsheets:Workbook) {
            boolean|error resultRemove = workbook->removeWorksheet(WORK_SHEET_NAME);
            if (resultRemove is boolean) {

>                 log:printInfo("Worksheet was deleted");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                log:printInfo("Worksheet deleted successfully.");
```

Author: Done

            } else {
                log:printError("Could not delete the Worksheet", err = resultRemove);
            }

            msspreadsheets:Worksheet|error sheet = workbook->createWorksheet(WORK_SHEET_NAME);

            if (sheet is msspreadsheets:Worksheet) {

>                 log:printInfo("Worksheet was created");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                log:printInfo("Worksheet created successfully.");
```

Author: Done

                    resultHeader = resultTable->setTableHeader(TABLE_NAME, 5, "Price");

                    if (resultHeader is boolean) {
                        json[][] valuesString=[];
                        time:Time time = time:currentTime();
                        string|error cString1 = time:format(time, "yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSZ");
                        string customTimeString = "";
                        if (cString1 is string) {
                            customTimeString = cString1;
                        }

                        foreach int counter in 1...5 {
                            int itemID = counter + 100;
                            json[] arr = [ counter.toString(), customTimeString, 
                            itemID.toString(), "Item-" + itemID.toString(), "10" ];
                            valuesString.push(arr);
                        }
                        json data = {"values": valuesString};
                        boolean|error result = resultTable->insertDataIntoTable(<@untainted> data);

                        if (result is boolean) {
                            if (result) {

>                                 log:printInfo("Inserted data into table");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                log:printInfo("Data inserted into the table successfully.");
```

Author: Done

                                msonedrive:OneDriveClient msOneDriveClient = new(msGraphConfig);
                                msonedrive:Item|error item = msOneDriveClient->getItemFromRoot(WORK_BOOK_NAME + ".xlsx");
                                if (item is msonedrive:Item) {
                                    log:printInfo("The URL of the workbook (" + item.name.toString() + ") is " + item.webUrl.toString());
                                } else {
                                     log:printError("Error getting the spreadsheet URL", err = item);
                                }
                            } else {
                                log:printError("Error inserting data into the table");
                            }
                        } else {
                            log:printError("Error inserting data into the table");
                        }
                    } else {

>                         log:printError("Error setting table headers", err = resultHeader);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                        log:printError("Error setting the table headers", err = resultHeader);
```

Author: Done

                    }
                } else {

>                     log:printError("Error creating table", err = resultTable);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    log:printError("Error creating the table", err = resultTable);
```

Author: Done

                }
            } else {

>                 log:printError("Error opening worksheet", err = sheet);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                log:printError("Error opening the worksheet", err = sheet);
```

Author: Done

            }
        } else {

>             log:printError("Error opening workbook", err = workbook);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            log:printError("Error opening the workbook", err = workbook);
```

Author: Done

# Module Microsoft Graph

This module allows users to connect to the Microsoft Graph API, which acts as the gateway to data and intelligence in Microsoft 365. Microsoft Graph exposes a unified programming model, which can be used to access vast amounts of data available in Office 365, Windows 10, and Enterprise Mobility & Security.

The current implementation of Microsoft Graph consists of the following sub modules.

**Spreadsheet Operations**

> The `wso2/msspreadsheets` module contains operations to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) operations on [Excel workbooks](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/excel?view=graph-rest-1.0) stored in Microsoft OneDrive.

Reviewer 2: Shall we change `wso2` to `ballerinax`?

Author: Ok, I made the changes accordingly

**OneDrive Operations**
Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting service and synchronization service run by Microsoft. It is operated as part of Microsoft Office 365.

> The `ballerinax/msonedrive` module contains operations for accessing the items stored in OneDrive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ballerinax/microsoft.onedrive1` module contains operations for accessing the items stored in OneDrive.
```

Author: Fixed the documentation issue
